---
title: Great Ocean Road - part 1
date: 2025-04-25T19:57:00+10:00
---
If you have followed the past few blog posts you know that the girls 
have barely gone to school and this week is no exception. With Easter 
Monday being off and Friday being ANZAC day (memorial day), the kids 
also got Thursday off as the school had a 'curriculum day' (where the 
teachers get to work without students being there). With having spent 
over a month exploring Melbourne we figured it was time to see some more
 of Australia. A few short hours drive from Melbourne is something 
called the Great Ocean Drive. A scenic road that takes you from Torquay 
in the east to Allensford in the west. Along the way you can see 
sweeping vistas of ocean and rock, and you can stop in quaint little 
seaside towns. With a total of three days spent on the road and another 
exciting thing lined up for Sunday on the way home I figured this one 
required a two-parter.

## Day 1 - Melbourne to Apollo Bay
We may 
have got going a little late out of town as I had to pick up a rental 
car and we needed to pack up, but we got going almost 11 on the dot. 
Driving on the 'wrong' (left) side of the road isn't all that bad so we 
got out of the city without problem. Once on the highway it was a pretty
 straight shot to Torquay and our first stop. You might not call Torquay
 quaint as it is a little on the larger side, but it is still a seaside 
town. It is next to Bells Beach, which is apparently quite famous if you
 are a surfer, but the beach along the town is still very nice. As we 
quickly discovered, a nice beach is quite the norm along the coast. And 
so after dipping our toes in the water we headed on to Aireys Inlet. 
Here we got to see the first lighthouse of the trip. We got there too 
late to go inside the lighthouse, but there was still plenty of views to
 take in. After that we headed down to the town of Lorne and up to 
Teddy's Lookout. The lookout itself was somewhat underwhelming, but we 
did get to see several kookaburras in the wild.

## Day 2 - Apollo Bay to Port Campbell
Arriving
 in Apollo Bay after dark the day before we thankfully had time to 
explore the town in the morning before leaving. Again, a lovely beach, 
but also a marina and a really nice playground. We got to enjoy some 
time in the fresh seaside air before packing into the car. Thankfully 
the first stop of the day was Cape Otway and the Cape Otway Lightstation
 that was only a half hour drive down the coast. Turns out there was 
plenty more to see than just another lighthouse as Cape Outway also has a
 telegraph station from 1859 when they put an underwater wire to 
Tasmania so you could have seamless communication between this 
up-and-coming state and Melbourne. Quite the telecommunication 
improvement for a person in the 1850's. The lighthouse was even older, 
from 1848, and was a vital improvement to the shipping lane going 
through the Bass Strait. Much like the Statue of Liberty welcomed 
immigrants to the United States, the Cape Otway Lighthouse was often the
 first land-sighting immigrants of the 1800's saw before arriving in 
Melbourne. This time we also got to head inside the lighthouse and enjoy
 the views from the top. If you ever find yourself at Cape Outway be 
sure to visit the Lightstation Cafe and try their scones with cream and 
jam! After a great experience at Cape Otway it was time to head to the 
star attraction along the Great Oceon Road - the Twelve Apostles. 
Rounding the cape and heading back up the coast on the west side it is 
clear that the ocean hits harder on that side. The apostles are 
limestone rocks that have been hit by the sea over the time and eroded 
leaving a few stacks detached from the rest of the cliff. Apparently 
there are only 7 apostles left today as two of them collapsed in the 
last 20 years. Besides, there was never 12 of them to begin with so 
where the name comes from is anyone's guess. No matter what you call 
them it was certainly an experience watching the waves crash in and hit 
these lone mountains in the ocean. Being a tourist magnet (I counted no 
less than 7 busses of tourists along a large number of cars) they have 
built a large viewing platform where you can enjoy great views. But the 
real trick is to head down Gibson's Steps so you can get down on the 
beach and really appreciate the strength of the waves rolling in. Not to
 mention trying to get down and up steps carved straight into the cliff.

After
 yet another exciting day we headed to Port Campbell for dinner and some
 much needed rest. Tomorrow we finish the last leg of the Great Ocean 
Road and head to Geelong to check out Victoria's second largest city.
