---
title: A normal week. Finally.
date: 2025-05-04T21:50:00+10:00
---
Finally a week filled with normal things. Normal school for the kids. 
Normal school for Anna. And well, normal whatever my life is now. We 
have for the most part found a good rhythm for getting ready in the 
mornings, getting to school on time and things like homework once we are
 all back home in the afternoon. Not only did we have completely normal 
week, we also have another normal week coming up. That means a normal 
weekend. You know you need some routine and normalcy when you are happy 
to have two back-to-back weeks of the same thing! 

## Queen Vic Market

Being
 busy Monday through Friday with normal things that means we get to use 
the weekends for what most people use the weekends for: experience 
something different. Anna had been to the Queen Victoria Market before 
we arrived and for some reason we hadn't all gotten there. So we figured
 it was a good time to check it out. For those wondering, the Queen 
Victoria Market is just a large marketplace where anyone can rent a 
stall and sell their stuff (as long as the stuff is legal). Plenty of 
hats, souvenirs and other things for tourists, but also genuine art, 
bespoke artisans and handcrafted things. Kassandra found some iron-on 
patches of butterflies and a necklace that she purchased with her own 
money as she earns an allowance. Sadly, there weren't as many food 
trucks out as during the summer season, but we found the food court 
decent with independent restaurants.

## Autumn with a twist

Summer
 is definitely come to an end, but it took longer than we expected. But 
the leaves have all turned a shade of brown and most of them have fallen
 to the ground. However, I am not sure if this is unusual, but the 
temperature still gets decently warm during the day. Sure, it's chilly 
in the morning, but midday it's shorts weather even if it again gets 
cold in the evening. Some days are colder than others, but in general it
 has reached 18 Celsius during the day (about 64 Fahrenheit) and some 
days it gets even warmer. And the forecast seems to be for more of the 
same this coming week. It leaves you wondering if there will ever be 
anything resembling winter?



![](pxl_20250503_022438786.mp.jpg "Welcome to Queen Vic Market")

![](pxl_20250503_043700623.jpg "Get all your food delicasies in one place")

![](pxl_20250504_020539302.jpg "Leaves on the ground, but still shorts and t-shirt")
